Docs: Add rewrite-table-path in spark procedure (#12115)
apache/iceberg: docs/docs/spark-procedures.md

Collect statistics of the snapshot with id `snap1` of table `my_table` for columns `col1` and `col2`
```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.compute_table_stats(table => 'my_table', snapshot_id => 'snap1', columns => array('col1', 'col2'));
```

## Table Replication

> The `rewrite-table-path` procedure prepares an Iceberg table for moving or copying to another location.

Reviewer: Very small nit, let's do 'a move or copy' to match below language.  Sorry didnt catch earlier.

> The `rewrite-table-path` procedure prepares an Iceberg table for moving or copying to another location.

Reviewer 2: How can we achieve moving with this procedure?

Author: Hey @manuzhang, there's a section later highlights 3rd party tool such as distcp can be used to copy or move the files from source to target.

Reviewer 2: I don't think distcp can "move" the files, right?

Author: For some of our use cases where require migrating many iceberg tables from one file system to another, we built tools and systems around this rewrite-table-path spark actions for 3 step process of rewrite, copy and reregister  to complete migration. Technically speaking move can be done via copy from source to target first and later delete at source but I think there's much more involved and we dont want to prescribe the solution here

### `rewrite-table-path`

Stages a copy of the Iceberg table's metadata files where every absolute path source prefix is replaced by the specified target prefix.  
This can be the starting point to fully or incrementally copy an Iceberg table located under an absolute path under a 

> source prefix to another under the target prefix.

Reviewer 2: "under an absolute path under a source prefix to another under the target prefix."  is not easy to grok.

Reviewer: Now  'another' seems like 'another Iceberg table'.  How about, just:

```
This can be the starting point to fully or incrementally move or copy an Iceberg table to a new location.
```
?

!!! info

>     This procedure only prepares metadata for an existing Iceberg table for a copy or move to a new location.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This procedure only prepares metadata or/and data files for an existing Iceberg table for a copy or move to a new location.
```

>     This procedure only prepares metadata or/and data files for an existing Iceberg table for a copy or move to a new location.

Reviewer: Nit, how about copy or move => copying or moving (to match the language in the 'Table Replication' section, and also the next sentence)

>     This procedure only prepares metadata or/and data files for an existing Iceberg table for copying or moving to a new location.

Reviewer 2: Only delete files are copied, right?

Author: Not exactly, to fully replicate the table from one existing location to another, all files referenced by given iceberg table need to move, which include all of metadata and data files. The rewrite table path only rewrite the necessary files which have the path reference

Reviewer 2: I'm confused. Does it copy data files to staging folder?

Author: No it does not, this is just first step of three: rewrite, copy and re-register. Rewrite focus on iceberg metadata which have path reference, think about metadata.json, manfiest-list, manifest and position delete files, those all contain a file pointer in its content which require rewrite path for. Copy is the second step, where we can copy the files needed to the target. The copy target is superset of rewritten files, also include the data files.

Reviewer: How about:

`` This procedure only stages rewritten metadata files and prepares a list of files to copy.  The actual file copy is not part of this procedure.```

Reviewer: Adding copy + move everywhere in the doc is a bit awkward, I think it is not a common case to 'mv' the file as it destroys the original table.  Even if so, I think the user will get it and we dont have to make the doc awkward for that?

This produces a new set of metadata using the s3a prefix in the default staging location under table's metadata directory.

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "hdfs://nn:8020/path/to/source_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucket/prefix/db.db/my_table"
);
```

Incremental rewrite of a table's path from a source location to a target location between metadata versions
`v2.metadata.json` and `v20.metadata.json`, with files written to an explicit staging location.

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "s3a://bucketOne/prefix/db.db/my_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucketTwo/prefix/db.db/my_table",
    start_version => "v2.metadata.json",
    end_version => "v20.metadata.json",
    staging_location => "s3a://bucketStaging/my_table"  
);
```

Once the rewrite is completed, third-party tools (
eg. [Distcp](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-distcp/DistCp.html)) can be used to copy the newly created
metadata files and data files to the target location.

> Lastly, [register_table](#register_table) procedure can be used to register copied table in the target location with catalog.

Reviewer: Nit: missing articles: 'register the copied table' and 'a catalog' ?

!!! warning

>     Iceberg table with statistics files are not currently supported for path rewrite.

Reviewer: Just merged the other change, so we can update this part :)

Author: sounds good, updated to `Iceberg table with partition statistics files are not currently supported for path rewrite.`

source prefix to another under the target prefix.

!!! info
    This procedure only prepares metadata for an existing Iceberg table in preparation for a copy or move to a new location.
    Copying/Moving metadata and data files to the new location is not part of this procedure.
    

| Argument Name      | Required? | default                                        | Type   | Description                                                             |
|--------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `table`            | ✔️        |                                                | string | Name of the table                                                       |
| `source_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The existing prefix to be replaced                                      |
| `target_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The replacement prefix for `source_prefix`                              |

> | `start_version`    |           | first metadata.json in table's metadata log    | string | The name or path to the chronologically first metadata.json to rewrite. |

Reviewer: we should standardize (put period or not).  Lets go with the majority in the file (no period)

> #### Modes of operation:

Reviewer: Nit: remove colon here as well (i dont see a ton of colons elsewhere in the doc)

> - Full Rewrite:

Reviewer: Let's get rid of colons after Full Rewrite and Incremental Rewrite.  It looks weird on the rendered md.

> By default, the procedure operates in full rewrite mode, rewriting all reachable metadata files 

Reviewer: Noticed that the two sentences dont match in tense.  

Also reading this through in order again, I think its better to mention file_list_location as copy plan is not known yet.

How about

`By default, the procedure operates in full rewrite mode. It will rewrite all reachable metadata files... and will return all reachable files in the file_list_location.`

`The `start_version` and/or `end_version` arguments may be provided to limit the scope of the procedure.  
It will only rewrite metadata files added between `start_version` and `end_version`, and will only return files added in this range in the file_list_location.`

- Full Rewrite:

By default, the procedure operates in full rewrite mode, rewriting all reachable metadata files. This includes metadata.json, manifest lists, manifests, and position delete files.

- Incremental Rewrite:

> If `start_version` is provided, the procedure will only rewrite metadata files created between `start_version` and `end_version`. `end_version` defaults to the latest metadata location of the table. 

Reviewer: is it the `location of the chronologically last metadata.json`?  Not metadata location (which could be a folder)

Author: I think `end_version` can actually take either path to the file or just file name but name is more consist with examples below

#### Output

| Output Name          | Type   | Description                                                       |
|----------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `latest_version`     | string | Name of the latest metadata file rewritten by this procedure      |
| `file_list_location` | string | Path to a csv file containing a mapping of source to target paths |

##### File List Copy Plan

> The file contains the copy plan for all files added to the table between `startVersion` and `endVersion`:

Reviewer: Sorry I meant, colon after specifies in line 1022, not here.

For each file, it specifies

- Source Path:

> The original file path in the table, or the staging location if the file has been rewritten.

Reviewer: Should this be the same format as the previous list:  Incremental Rewrite and Full Rewrite? 

If so, there should be a space between "Source Path" and the next line, otherwise it shows as one line?  

And if we want two lines as the previous list, we should also remove the colon after "Source Path" and "Target Path".  I think colon should only be for if its on the same line.

- Target Path:
The path with the replacement prefix.

The following example shows a copy plan for three files:

```csv
sourcepath/datafile1.parquet,targetpath/datafile1.parquet
sourcepath/datafile2.parquet,targetpath/datafile2.parquet
stagingpath/manifest.avro,targetpath/manifest.avro
```

#### Examples

Full rewrite of a table's path from source location in HDFS to a target location in S3 bucket of table `my_table`.

> This produces a new set of metadata using the s3a prefix in the default staging location under table's metadata directory

Reviewer: Nit: period at end of sentence.

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "hdfs://nn:8020/path/to/source_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucket/prefix/db.db/my_table"
);
```

> Incremental rewrite of a table's path from a source location to a target location between metadata versions

Reviewer: Let's put periods after all of these for consistency?  (as you have period in the previous example)

Collect statistics of the snapshot with id `snap1` of table `my_table` for columns `col1` and `col2`
```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.compute_table_stats(table => 'my_table', snapshot_id => 'snap1', columns => array('col1', 'col2'));
```

## Table Replication

### `rewrite-table-path`

This procedure rewrites an iceberg table's metadata files to a new location by replacing all source prefixes in absolute paths
with a specified target prefix. After copying both metadata and data to the desired location, the replicated iceberg
table will appear identical to the source table, including snapshot history, schema and partition specs.

!!! info

> this procedure serves as the starting point to fully or incrementally copying an iceberg table to a new location. Copying all

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This procedure only creates metadata for an existing Iceberg table modified for a new location. Copying/Moving metadata and data files to the new location is not part of this procedure.
```

> metadata and data files from source to target location is not included as part of this procedure.

Reviewer 3: I think it's worth mentioning the results produced by this procedure: a list of file paths to copy. These results can be consumed by a pipeline responsible for copying the files.

| Argument Name      | Required? | Type   | Description                                                                                                |
|--------------------|-----------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `table`            | ✔️        | string | Name of the table                                                                                          |

> | `source_prefix`    | ✔️        | string | source prefix to be replaced                                                                               |

Reviewer 4: The existing prefix to be replaced

| `target_prefix`    | ✔️        | string | target prefix                                                                                          |

> | `start_version`    |           | string | First metadata version to rewrite, identified by name of a metadata.json file in the table's metadata log. |

Reviewer 4: Not sure this is well defined. The full path to the metadata.json? If so something like

"The path to the chronlogically first metadata.json to rewrite. When not specified all 'metadata.json's are rewritten."

Something similar for the next prop

| `end_version`      |           | string | Last metadata version to rewrite, identified by name of a metadata.json file in the table's metadata log.  |

> | `staging_location` |           | string | Custom staging location                                                                                    |

Reviewer 4: The location for newly modified metadata files, the output directory for this command(?)

#### Output

| Output Name          | Type   | Description                                                                     |
|----------------------|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `latest_version`     | string | Name of latest metadata file version                                            |

Reviewer 4: The last metadata.json rewritten by this procedure?

| `file_list_location` | string | Path to a file containing a listing of comma-separated paths ready to be copied |

Example file list content :

```csv
sourcepath/datafile1.parquet,targetpath/datafile1.parquet
sourcepath/datafile2.parquet,targetpath/datafile2.parquet
stagingpath/manifest.avro,targetpath/manifest.avro
```

#### Examples

> Full rewrite of a table's metadata path from source location in HDFS to a target location in S3 bucket of table `my_table`

Reviewer 4: Full and Incremental have not been defined here. We need some documentation to explain these modes of operation.

Author: Added mode of operation as suggested!

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "hdfs://nn:8020/path/to/source_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucket/prefix/db.db/my_table"
);

> ```

Reviewer 4: I think it makes sens to probably document what the outcome of this action would be. IE: This produces a new set of metadata using the s3a prefix in the default staging location xxxxxx

> Incremental rewrite of a table's metadata path from a source location to a target location between metadata version

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Incremental rewrite of a table's metadata path from a source location to a target location between metadata versions
```

Also change the versions in the command to make it more clear that we are going between multiple json files

`v2.metadata.json` and `v3.metadata.json`, with files written to a staging location

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "s3a://bucketOne/prefix/db.db/my_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucketTwo/prefix/db.db/my_table",
    start_version => "v2.metadata.json",
    end_version => "v3.metadata.json",
    staging_location => "s3a://bucketStaging/my_table"  
);
```

Once the rewrite is completed, third-party tools (
eg. [Distcp](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-distcp/DistCp.html)) can be used to copy the newly created
metadata files and data files to the target location. Here is an example of reading result from file list location in
Spark.

```java

> List<String> filesToMove =

Reviewer 4: Not sure why this is helpful?

        spark
        .read()
        .format("text")
        .load(result.fileListLocation())
        .as(Encoders.STRING())
        .collectAsList();
```

> Lastly, [register_table](#register_table) procedure can be used to register copied table in the target location with catalog.

Reviewer 3: Can we mentioned the validation to make sure table is usable?

Author: I had some offline discussion with @RussellSpitzer, I think referential integrity validation before table registration is great but it's hard to tell customer without information on how to do it. 

My plan is omit this for now in documentation, expand the logic in register_table procedure to allow for optional referential integrity check and come back to update this. What do you think @flyrain ?

!!! warning

>     Iceberg table with statistics files is not currently supported 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Iceberg table with statistics files are not currently supported 
```

Collect statistics of the snapshot with id `snap1` of table `my_table` for columns `col1` and `col2`
```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.compute_table_stats(table => 'my_table', snapshot_id => 'snap1', columns => array('col1', 'col2'));
```

## Table Replication

> The `rewrite-table-path` assists in moving or copying an Iceberg table from one location to another.

Reviewer: nit:  assists in => prepares for

``` The `rewrite-table-path` procedure prepares an Iceberg table for move or copy to another location. ```

### `rewrite-table-path`

> This procedure writes a new copy of the Iceberg table's files where every path has had its prefix replaced.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This procedure writes a new copy of the Iceberg table's metadata files where every path has had its prefix replaced.
```

> This procedure writes a new copy of the Iceberg table's metadata files where every path has had its prefix replaced.

Author: thank you Szehon, updated as what you suggested

> The newly rewritten metadata files, along with data files, enable moving or coping an Iceberg table to a new location.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The newly rewritten metadata files enable moving or coping an Iceberg table to a new location.
```

> The newly rewritten metadata files, along with data files, enable moving or coping an Iceberg table to a new location.

Reviewer 5: > The newly rewritten metadata files, along with data files, enable moving or coping an Iceberg table to a new location.

Do we need to call out the position delete rewrite as it can have old / sources files reference too ? to the best of my knowledge we did handle this case as if they will be re:written .

Author: Yeah, good point. I believe we rewrite not just metadata files, but also position delete which have path reference.

After copying both metadata and data to the desired location, the replicated iceberg
table will appear identical to the source table, including snapshot history, schema and partition specs.

!!! info

>     This procedure only creates metadata for an existing Iceberg table modified for a new location. Procedure results can be consumed for copying the files.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    This procedure only creates metadata for an existing Iceberg table modified for a new location. The produced file_list can be used for copying rewritten metadata and data files to the new location.
```

>     This procedure only creates metadata for an existing Iceberg table modified for a new location. The produced file_list can be used for copying rewritten metadata and data files to the new location.

Reviewer: How about:

``` This procedure only prepares metadata for an existing Iceberg table in preparation for a copy or move to a new location.  The copying or moving of files is outside its scope. ```

Maybe the file_list could be left out as its explained in the output below?

Author: Sounds good. Updated but I think I think keep the existing tone of not part of procedure reads a bit better than outside its scope, let me know if you feel otherwise

| `table`            | ✔️        |                                                | string | Name of the table                                                       |
| `source_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The existing prefix to be replaced                                      |
| `target_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The replacement prefix for `source_prefix`                              |
| `start_version`    |           | first metadata.json in table's metadata log    | string | The name or path to the chronologically first metadata.json to rewrite. |
| `end_version`      |           | latest metadata.json                           | string | The name or path to the chronologically last metadata.json to rewrite   |
| `staging_location` |           | new directory under table's metadata directory | string | The output location for newly modified metadata files                   |

#### Modes of operation:

- Full Rewrite:

> By default, the procedure operates in full rewrite mode where all metadata files are rewritten.

Reviewer 4: "all metadata files associated with any reachable metadata.json?" I don't think "all metadata files" is well defined here. I believe it's every metadata.json and all files associated with those metadata.jsons that is in the history log, or am I incorrect?

I can't remember if it's this or just snapshots?

Author: I think we rewrite all files which have path reference in content. Including metadata.json, manifest list, manifests and also position delete files, which will be rewritten as part of the procedure.

Author: I think we rewrite all files which have path reference in content. Including metadata.json, manifest list, manifests and also position delete files, which will be rewritten as part of the procedure.

> By default, the procedure operates in full rewrite mode, rewriting every Iceberg table file containing a path reference. This includes metadata.json, manifest lists, manifests, and position delete files.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, the procedure operates in full rewrite mode, rewriting all reachable metadata files. This includes metadata.json, manifest lists, manifests, and position delete files.
```

- Incremental Rewrite:

> If `start_version` is provided, the procedure will only rewrite delta metadata files between `start_version` and `end_version`. `end_version` is default to latest metadata location of the table. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If `start_version` is provided, the procedure will only rewrite delta metadata files between `start_version` and `end_version`. `end_version` defaults to the latest metadata location of the table. 
```

> If `start_version` is provided, the procedure will only rewrite delta of table files containing a path reference between `start_version` and `end_version`. `end_version` defaults to the latest metadata location of the table. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If `start_version` is provided, the procedure will only rewrite metadata files created between between `start_version` and `end_version`. `end_version` defaults to the latest metadata location of the table. 
```

#### Output

| Output Name          | Type   | Description                                                                         |
|----------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `latest_version`     | string | Name of the latest metadata file rewritten by this procedure                        |

> | `file_list_location` | string | Path to a file containing a listing of comma-separated source and destination paths |

Reviewer: I feel we did some rounds in the javadoc for the Result, so would take from that?

```
Path to a file containing a copy plan for all files added to the table between startVersion and endVersion, comma-separated.

For each file, it will include the source path (either the original path in the table, or in the staging location if rewritten), and the target path (under the new prefix).
 
This allows for copying a functioning version of the table to the target prefix.
```

Author: Sounds great! I think we can keep short description in the table to be concise, I added a section below for file list which highlight the source and target prefix and examples below with more details as you suggested

Reviewer 2: How about "Path to a csv file containing a mapping of source and target paths"?
* csv file is comma-separated by nature
* `target paths` to be consistent with `target prefix"

This produces a new set of metadata using the s3a prefix in the default staging location under table's metadata directory

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "hdfs://nn:8020/path/to/source_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucket/prefix/db.db/my_table"
);
```

Incremental rewrite of a table's metadata path from a source location to a target location between metadata versions
`v2.metadata.json` and `v20.metadata.json`, with files written to a staging location

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "s3a://bucketOne/prefix/db.db/my_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucketTwo/prefix/db.db/my_table",
    start_version => "v2.metadata.json",
    end_version => "v20.metadata.json",
    staging_location => "s3a://bucketStaging/my_table"  
);
```

Once the rewrite is completed, third-party tools (
eg. [Distcp](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-distcp/DistCp.html)) can be used to copy the newly created
metadata files and data files to the target location

> Lastly, after referential integrity check on copied files, [register_table](#register_table) procedure can be used to register copied table in the target location with catalog.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Lastly, after a referential integrity check on copied files, [register_table](#register_table) procedure can be used to register copied table in the target location with catalog.
```

This also needs more info on how to do the integrity check

| `source_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The existing prefix to be replaced                                     |
| `target_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The replacement prefix for `source_prefix`                             |
| `start_version`    |           | first metadata.json in table's metadata log    | string | The name or path of the chronologically first metadata.json to rewrite |
| `end_version`      |           | latest metadata.json in table's metadata log   | string | The name or path of the chronologically last metadata.json to rewrite  |
| `staging_location` |           | new directory under table's metadata directory | string | The output location for newly rewritten metadata files                 |

#### Modes of operation

* Full Rewrite: A full rewrite will rewrite all reachable metadata files (this includes metadata.json, manifest lists, manifests, and position delete files), and will return all reachable files in the `file_list_location`. This is the default mode of operation for this procedure.

> * Incremental Rewrite: An incremental rewrite will only rewrite metadata files added between `start_version` and `end_version`, and will only return files added in this range in the `file_list_location`. Optionally, `start_version` and `end_version` can be provided to limit the scope of this procedure.

Reviewer: Discuss offline, this makes it seem like there's an optional mode within incremental rewrite.  Suggest:

```
Incremental Rewrite: Optionally, `start_version` and `end_version` can be provided to limit the scope to an incremental rewrite. An incremental rewrite will only rewrite metadata files added between `start_version` and `end_version`, and will only return files added in this range in the `file_list_location`. 
```

Collect statistics of the snapshot with id `snap1` of table `my_table` for columns `col1` and `col2`
```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.compute_table_stats(table => 'my_table', snapshot_id => 'snap1', columns => array('col1', 'col2'));
```

## Table Replication

> The `rewrite-table-path` procedure prepares an Iceberg table for copying to another location.

Reviewer: The procedure uses underscore, this is the only one that is hyphen.

> ### `rewrite-table-path`

Reviewer: Same, use underscore like the other procedure sections.

!!! info
    This procedure only stages rewritten metadata files and prepares a list of files to copy. The actual file copy is not included in this procedure.

| Argument Name      | Required? | default                                        | Type   | Description                                                            |
|--------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `table`            | ✔️        |                                                | string | Name of the table                                                      |
| `source_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The existing prefix to be replaced                                     |
| `target_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The replacement prefix for `source_prefix`                             |
| `start_version`    |           | first metadata.json in table's metadata log    | string | The name or path of the chronologically first metadata.json to rewrite |

> | `end_version`      |           | latest metadata.json                           | string | The name or path of the chronologically last metadata.json to rewrite  |

Reviewer: Was there an earlier discussion, why not have 'in table's metadata log' to match start_version

| `staging_location` |           | new directory under table's metadata directory | string | The output location for newly modified metadata files                  |

#### Modes of operation

* Full Rewrite: 

> A full rewrite will rewrite all reachable metadata files

Reviewer: Nit: not blocking, but can move to above line?  To make it clear to readers, that it will render as one line

(this includes metadata.json, manifest lists, manifests, and position delete files), and will return all reachable files in the `file_list_location`. This is the default mode of operation for this procedure.

* Incremental Rewrite: 

> An incremental rewrite will only rewrite metadata files added between `start_version` and `end_version`, and will only return files added in this range in the `file_list_location`. Optional `start_version` and `end_version` can be provided to limit the scope of this procedure.

Reviewer: Optional => Optionally (with a comma).

```Optionally, `start_version` and `end_version` can be provided to limit the scope of this procedure.```

(I think optional is not gramatically correct)

#### Output

| Output Name          | Type   | Description                                                       |
|----------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `latest_version`     | string | Name of the latest metadata file rewritten by this procedure      |
| `file_list_location` | string | Path to a CSV file containing a mapping of source to target paths |

##### File List
The file contains the copy plan for all files added to the table between `start_version` and `end_version`.

For each file, it specifies:

* Source Path: The original file path in the table, or the staging location if the file has been rewritten

* Target Path: The path with the replacement prefix

The following example shows a copy plan for three files:

```csv
sourcepath/datafile1.parquet,targetpath/datafile1.parquet
sourcepath/datafile2.parquet,targetpath/datafile2.parquet
stagingpath/manifest.avro,targetpath/manifest.avro
```

#### Examples

> This example fully rewrites path of `my_table` from source location in HDFS to a target location in S3.

Reviewer: How about:

path => metadata paths, ie

```This example fully rewrites metadata paths of ...```

> It will produce a new set of metadata in the default staging location under table's metadata directory.

Reviewer: table => the table

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "hdfs://nn:8020/path/to/source_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucket/prefix/db.db/my_table"
);
```

> This example incrementally rewrites path of `my_table` between metadata versions `v2.metadata.json` and `v20.metadata.json`,

Reviewer: Same:  path=> metadata paths

Collect statistics of the snapshot with id `snap1` of table `my_table` for columns `col1` and `col2`
```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.compute_table_stats(table => 'my_table', snapshot_id => 'snap1', columns => array('col1', 'col2'));
```

## Table Replication

> The `rewrite-table-path` procedure prepares an Iceberg table for moving or copying to another location.

Reviewer: Nit: recommend remove `moving` here as well.  Also the title is 'replication' and not 'migration'

| `table`            | ✔️        |                                                | string | Name of the table                                                       |
| `source_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The existing prefix to be replaced                                      |
| `target_prefix`    | ✔️        |                                                | string | The replacement prefix for `source_prefix`                              |
| `start_version`    |           | first metadata.json in table's metadata log    | string | The name or path to the chronologically first metadata.json to rewrite  |
| `end_version`      |           | latest metadata.json                           | string | The name or path to the chronologically last metadata.json to rewrite   |
| `staging_location` |           | new directory under table's metadata directory | string | The output location for newly modified metadata files                   |

#### Modes of operation:

- Full Rewrite:

> By default, the procedure operates in full rewrite mode, rewriting all reachable metadata files. This includes metadata.json, manifest lists, manifests, and position delete files.

Reviewer: Nit: how about adding a sentence about the copy plan:

``` By default, the procedure operates in full rewrite mode, rewriting all reachable metadata files (this includes metadata.json, manifest lists, manifests, and position delete files), and returning all reachable files in the result copy plan.```

- Incremental Rewrite:

> If `start_version` is provided, the procedure will only rewrite metadata files created between `start_version` and `end_version`. `end_version` defaults to the latest metadata.json of the table. 

Reviewer: Hm i just noticed you only mention 'end_version' default, and not 'start_version'.

How about:  
```
The 'start_version' and/or 'end_version' arguments may be provided to limit the scope to prepare an incremental copy.  Only metadata files added between 'start_version' and 'end_version' will be rewritten, and only files added in this range are returned in the copy plan.
```

#### Output

| Output Name          | Type   | Description                                                       |
|----------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `latest_version`     | string | Name of the latest metadata file rewritten by this procedure      |
| `file_list_location` | string | Path to a csv file containing a mapping of source to target paths |

##### File List Copy Plan

> The file list contains the copy plan for all files added to the table between `startVersion` and `endVersion`. 

Reviewer: NIt:  should we put a colon in the end of the sentence, to indicate that a list is coming up?

Also does this render as a list?

Reviewer: Sorry I meant the next two points, do they render as a markdown list!

This produces a new set of metadata using the s3a prefix in the default staging location under table's metadata directory.

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "hdfs://nn:8020/path/to/source_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucket/prefix/db.db/my_table"
);
```

Incremental rewrite of a table's path from a source location to a target location between metadata versions
`v2.metadata.json` and `v20.metadata.json`, with files written to an explicit staging location.

```sql
CALL catalog_name.system.rewrite_table_path(
    table => 'db.my_table', 
    source_prefix => "s3a://bucketOne/prefix/db.db/my_table",
    target_prefix => "s3a://bucketTwo/prefix/db.db/my_table",
    start_version => "v2.metadata.json",
    end_version => "v20.metadata.json",
    staging_location => "s3a://bucketStaging/my_table"  
);
```

Once the rewrite is completed, third-party tools (
eg. [Distcp](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-distcp/DistCp.html)) can be used to copy the newly created
metadata files and data files to the target location.

> Lastly, [register_table](#register_table) procedure can be used to register the copied table in the target location with a catalog.

Reviewer: Nit: put `the` before `register_table procedure`

## Table Replication

> The `rewrite-table-path` procedure prepares an Iceberg table for moving or copying to another.

Reviewer: Nit: add location at the end of the sentence

Author: ops, copy paste mistake

### `rewrite-table-path`

> Stages a copy of the Iceberg table's metadata files where every absolute path source prefix is replaced to the specified target.  

Reviewer: Nit: `replaced to` is probably not correct, should be `replaced by`.  Also, add `prefix` at the end?

This can be the starting point to fully or incrementally copy an Iceberg table located under an absolute path under a 
source prefix to another under the target prefix.

!!! info

>     This procedure only prepares metadata for an existing Iceberg table in preparation for a copy or move to a new location.

Reviewer: prepares and in preparation are redundant.  How about `This procedure only prepares metadata for an existing Iceberg table for a copy or move to a new location.`

    Copying/Moving metadata and data files to the new location is not part of this procedure.

>     

Reviewer: Revert newline

### `rewrite-table-path`

Stages a copy of the Iceberg table's metadata files where every absolute path source prefix is replaced by the specified target prefix.  

> This can be the starting point to fully or incrementally move or copy an Iceberg table to a new location.

Reviewer: Nit: let's remove `move` to keep it brief ?  (based on previous discussion)
